I've been described as a tough and noisy woman, a prize fighter, a man-hater, you name it. They call me Battling Bella, Mother Courage, and a Jewish mother with more complaints than Portnoy. ~ Bella Abzug
They used to give us a day--it was called International Women's Day. In 1975 they gave us a year, the Year of the Woman. Then from 1975 to 1985 they gave us a decade, the Decade of the Woman. I said at the time, who knows, if we behave they may let us into the whole thing. Well, we didn't behave and here we are. ~ Bella Abzug
Women have been trained to speak softly and carry a lipstick. Those days are over. ~ Bella Abzug
The test for whether or not you can hold a job should not be the arrangement of your chromosomes. ~ Bella Abzug
Our struggle today is not to have a female Einstein get appointed as an assistant professor. It is for a woman schlemiel to get as quickly promoted as a male schlemiel. ~ Bella Abzug
We are coming down from our pedestal and up from the laundry room. We want an equal share in government and we mean to get it. ~ Bella Abzug
I am not elevating women to sainthood, nor am I suggesting that all women share the same views, or that all women are good and all men bad. ~ Bella Abzug
Women have been and are prejudiced, narrowminded, reactionary, even violent. ~ Bella Abzug
If we get a government that reflects more of what this country is really about, we can turn the century -- and the economy -- around. ~ Bella Abzug
Abortion doesn't belong in the political arena. It's a private right, like many other rights concerning the family. ~ Bella Abzug
I prefer the word "homemaker" because "housewife" always implies that there may be a wife someplace else. ~ Bella Abzug
I began wearing hats as a young lawyer because it helped me to establish my professional identity. Before that, whenever I was at a meeting, someone would ask me to get coffee. ~ Bella Abzug
The establishment is made up of little men, very frightened. ~ Bella Abzug
All of the men on my staff can type. ~ Bella Abzug
I am not being facetious when I say that the real enemies in this country are the Pentagon and its pals in big business. ~ Bella Abzug
The inside operation of Congress -- the deals, the compromises, the selling out, the co-opting, the unprincipled manipulating, the self-serving career-building -- is a story of such monumental decadence that I believe if people find out about it they will demand an end to it. ~ Bella Abzug
Remember the Ladies, and be more generous and favorable to them than your ancestors. ~ Abigail Adams
Do not put such unlimited power into the hands of the husbands. Remember all men would be tyrants if they could. ~ Abigail Adams
If particular care and attention is not paid to the ladies, we are determined to foment a rebellion, and will not hold ourselves bound by any laws in which we have no voice or representation. ~ Abigail Adams
If we mean to have Heroes, Statesmen and Philosophers, we should have learned women. ~ Abigail Adams
Well, knowledge is a fine thing, and mother Eve thought so; but she smarted so severely for hers, that most of her daughters have been afraid of it since. ~ Abigail Adams
Great necessities call out great virtues. ~ Abigail Adams
I've always felt that a person's intelligence is directly reflected by the number of conflicting points of view he can entertain simultaneously on the same topic. ~ Abigail Adams
Men of sense in all ages abhor those customs which treat us only as the vassals of your sex. ~ Abigail Adams
The only chance for much intellectual improvement in the female sex, was to be found in the families of the educated class and in occasional intercourse with the learned. (1817) ~ Abigail Adams
I regret the trifling narrow contracted education of the females of my own country. ~ Abigail Adams
The natural tenderness and delicacy of our constitution, added to the many dangers we are subject to from your sex, renders it almost impossible for a single lady to travel without injury to her character. And those who have a protector in a husband have, generally speaking, obstacles to prevent their roving. ~ Abigail Adams
If much depends as is allowed upon the early Education of youth and the first principles which are instill'd take the deepest root, great benefit must arise from literary accomplishments in women. ~ Abigail Adams
These are times in which a genius would wish to live. It is not in the still calm of life, or the repose of a pacific station, that great characters are formed. ~ Abigail Adams
To be good, and do good, is the whole duty of man comprised in a few words. ~ Abigail Adams
Learning is not to be attained by chance, it must be sought with ardor and attended to with diligence. ~ Abigail Adams
But let no person say what they would or would not do, since we are not judges for ourselves until circumstances call us to act. ~ Abigail Adams
A little of what you call frippery is very necessary towards looking like the rest of the world. ~ Abigail Adams
We have too many high-sounding words, and too few actions that correspond with them. ~ Abigail Adams
I begin to think, that a calm is not desirable in any situation in life. Man was made for action and for bustle too, I believe. ~ Abigail Adams
Wisdom and penetration are the fruit of experience, not the lessons of retirement and leisure. ~ Abigail Adams
These are the times in which a genius would wish to live. It is not in the still calm of life, or the repose of a pacific station, that great characters are formed. ~ Abigail Adams
No one is without difficulties, whether in high or low life, and every person knows best where their own shoe pinches. ~ Abigail Adams
Nothing could be worse than the fear that one had given up too soon, and left one unexpended effort that might have saved the world. ~ Jane Addams
The good we secure for ourselves is precarious and uncertain until it is secured for all of us and incorporated into our common life. ~ Jane Addams
Unless our conception of patriotism is progressive, it cannot hope to embody the real affection and the real interest of the nation. ~ Jane Addams
In his own way each man must struggle, lest the normal law become a far-off abstraction utterly separated from his active life. ~ Jane Addams
Action indeed is the sole medium of expression for ethics. ~ Jane Addams
Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we often might win, by fearing to attempt. ~ Jane Addams
Private beneficence is totally inadequate to deal with the vast numbers of the city's disinherited. ~ Jane Addams
We have learned to say that the good must be extended to all of society before it can be held secure by any one person or class; but we have not yet learned to add to that statement, that unless all [people] and all classes contribute to a good, we cannot even be sure that it is worth having. ~ Jane Addams
Social advance depends as much upon the process through which it is secured as upon the result itself. ~ Jane Addams
The new growth in the plant swelling against the sheath, which at the same time imprisons and protects it, must still be the truest type of progress. ~ Jane Addams
Civilization is a method of living and an attitude of equal respect for all people. ~ Jane Addams
Old-fashioned ways which no longer apply to changed conditions are a snare in which the feet of women have always become readily entangled. ~ Jane Addams
I do not believe that women are better than men. We have not wrecked railroads, nor corrupted legislature, nor done many unholy things that men have done; but then we must remember that we have not had the chance. ~ Jane Addams
National events determine our ideals, as much as our ideals determine national events. ~ Jane Addams
An unscrupulous contractor regards no basement as too dark, no stable loft too foul, no rear shanty too provisional, no tenement room too small for his workroom as these conditions imply low rental. ~ Jane Addams
America's future will be determined by the home and the school. The child becomes largely what he is taught; hence we must watch what we teach, and how we live. ~ Jane Addams
The essence of immorality is the tendency to make an exception of myself. ~ Jane Addams
The excellent becomes the permanent. ~ Jane Addams
Far away there in the sunshine are my highest aspirations. I may not reach them, but I can look up and see their beauty, believe in them, and try to follow where they lead. ~ Louisa May Alcott
Love is the only thing that we can carry with us when we go, and it makes the end so easy. ~ Louisa May Alcott
Help one another is part of the religion of our sisterhood. ~ Louisa May Alcott
Many argue; not many converse. ~ Louisa May Alcott
Resolve to take fate by the throat and shake a living out of her. ~ Louisa May Alcott
I believe that it is as much a right and duty for women to do something with their lives as for men and we are not going to be satisfied with such frivolous parts as you give us. ~ Louisa May Alcott
"Stay" is a charming word in a friend's vocabulary. ~ Louisa May Alcott
I asked for bread, and I got a stone in the shape of a pedestal. ~ Louisa May Alcott
Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents. ~ Louisa May Alcott
